# THE FIRE TURKEY
Created in cooperation with Phoenix.

The Hollarville Fire Turkey is a mysterious and wondrous being who wanders around the southern counties of Hollarville. It hungers for justice and offers both  wisdom and sustenance in return.

You'll know the Fire Turkey by the trail of singed grass and leaves in its wake. It hatches from an egg every morning, a happy baby bird coated in yellow fire. It grows up fast, and by noon it will grow into a fine, healthy turkey, orange and yellow in its flames. By the time Sister Sun is wrapping up her work for the day, the Fire Turkey will grow aged and wise, a tiny hint of blue at the base of its flames showing how it is roasting itself. When the sun finally sets, the Fire Turkey bursts into roaring flames--though the bird is considerate enough to do this on rocky or paved areas, so as not to start brush fires. As the sun and the flames die down, what remains is a perfectly roasted Christmas dinner turkey, with a well sheltered egg inside that will hatch the Turkey anew the next sunrise.

Now, know that above all the turkey is a giving soul who rewards justice. Should a hungry child come upon its remains after sunset, or someone who's down on their luck and needs something good to happen, or someone the Fire Turkey has decided has earned a good meal, they are welcome to partake. But be warned, those who take the Turkey's meal without being offered it, the meat will rot in your stomach.

In the afternoon, once it's grown to an adult, the Turkey gets hungry. But it's a peculiar thing it wants to eat: Bones. Specifically, the bones of the guilty. Feed the bones of the cruel to the Turkey, and it'll lay you an egg. What's inside depends on the nature of the guilty bone's crimes. We know that those who have murdered their fellow people produce an egg with scuppernong wine inside, sweet to taste. Afterward the drinker is directed to look into the Turkey's eyes and see the moment of their own demise in them, so they can be ready to meet death well. Meanwhile, the bones of violators of the god given right to consent produces an egg with a twist cap, containing a strong, hearty hooch. While intoxicated on the stuff, the drinker can actually understand the Turkey's warbling, and the two can sit and share stories, and the drinker can ask the Turkey's advice on things. The Turkey is sometimes unconventional, but always wise when giving advice.

The results of different types of bones are rumored to give different rewards, but the rumors don't always agree with each other. The only other thing that's known for sure is that if you feed it the bones of someone innocent, the egg you get will contain a painful toxin, and once it has crippled you the Turkey will attack. Between the poison and the flames, few survive. So if you're out collecting bones, you better be *real* sure.
