# Mother Mountain and The Family

A druidic and/or shamanic faith practiced primarily in Dalrok, The Family is a pantheon of nature deities. It is headed by Mother Mountain, and all other deities in the religion are named with that family-title natural-formation formula. Most residents of Dalrok follow this faith (nominally at least). The Family has spread across Rork, but it tends to be a minor faith elsewhere. Most of its tenants and lessons focus on the relationship between folk and the land they live on, calling on the faithful to keep the land healthy. The Family promises to keep the people healthy in return.

In the original Dal, there is no specific word to refer to a lay-follower of The Family. For most of the language's history, that was just an assumed part of being Dal. If the need to make that distinction comes up, the usual phrase is, "part of The Big Family." In Eldar, followers of The Family are generally referred to as a Family-Man/Woman/Person.

Shaman for The Family come in two broad mindsets: those who live with people and consider them their primary concern, and reclusive ones who focus on a specific deity. The former live in towns and provide healing, guidance, and comfort to the people around them. The latter usually live on their own near a landmark they feel a special connection to, only returning to towns when they need to or a situation calls for a connection to a specific Family member. For example, a shaman dedicated to Father Flow would live near a river while an advocate of Grandfather Glacier would seek out a deep snow field or perpetually frozen lake.

After death, faithful of The Family believe they are reincarnated elsewhere in the natural cycle, usually near the place they died. The people of Dalrok specifically expect to be born there again in their next life--though perhaps as an animal, spirit, or plant next time. 

Rituals in the Family are very free-form and idiosyncratic. They are generally done in one of three places. 

Towns in Dalrok usually have an area with a large pit for a bonfire and space for people to gather. Among several other functions, these spaces house public rituals done for the benefit of the community. Such rituals usually coincide with major holidays or astrological events. (Note that holidays can be town specific, commemorating something important specifically to that town or clan's history, held no where else.) Towns almost always have a temple building where the town shaman and their assistants live, and rituals meant to assist individuals or small groups tend to take place inside these buildings. These types of rituals usually involve the shaman leading the community in prayers along with offerings to the gods. The most common offerings are food, incense, and joyous emotions--physically symbolized by small effigies or symbols made by the one giving sacrifice. Some also add a drop of blood to offerings so the gods know who it's from. Most of the time the offering is burned, though some food offerings are instead placed on an altar, trusting that animals or other natural forces will carry the offering the rest of the way.

The third sort of ritual is meant to appease a specific god or to initiate shamans and takes place at a the dwelling a relevant reclusive shaman. Details of these rituals are kept secret, and revealing them often comes at great cost to the one who share and the people around them. Rumors about these rituals are common. On the more reasonable side are stories of ritual self-harm or scarification, high doses of mind-altering substances, offerings of blood or other bodily fluids, and extreme tests of patience and endurance. More salacious stories go to the same tasteless extremes one sees form around secret practices everywhere else, and make similarly gruesome claims about the measures taken to keep these rites secret.

((Information on specific rituals will be available with Lore and/or Streetwise checks.))

Most lay followers of The Family have a very casual relationship with their gods. Particularly zealous believers give a short prayer of thanks before meals and speak of their deities with reverence, but most folks will talk about them like distant family members. They may give a one sentence prayer or thanks when they encounter good fortune, but they are just as likely to give an ironic prayer when they hit equally bad fortune. For example: on a particularly chilly day a Family-Person might say, "Grandpa Glacier's cranky today." A child finding a particularly pretty stone near a body of water might say something like, "Thanks Father Flood/Flow!" Chiding someone for being lazy might sound something like, "C'mon now, even Sister Sky works harder than you!"

Some stories also speak of a transitory state or a temporary afterlife a soul lingers in for a time after death. This state or realm is generally considered less pleasant than being alive, where the soul without the animating forces of a body lacks energy and drive. Restful, but unfulfilling. For most folk, exiting this realm is a matter of time; when the last intelligent being who knew the soul in their last life dies, the waiting soul is reborn. While they may welcome repose when they enter this realm, the stories frame souls as being eager for rebirth when their time comes.

This realm is also the religion's punishment for evildoers, who are said to languish in this state until their crimes are forgotten. Some stories describe extra punishments for evildoers in this realm, but these are uncommon.
## Major figures --

### Mother Mountain
The head of the pantheon. She represents the highest points in the world that are still connected to it. She is generally described as noble and kind, but prone to melancholy and slow to action. In stories she is broadly benevolent, but expects those she blesses to tend to their duties and pass that benevolence on. She is slow to anger, but if roused she will strike with the force of a rockslide or avalanche. She has an affinity for all animals, but has a particular fondness for cayotes. It's sometimes said she listens to their cries the way folk listen to music.

### Father Flood and Father Flow
Mother Mountain's primary consorts. (Note that The Family is not monogamous at any level; Mother and Fathers alike have multiple lovers in this pantheon.) 

Father Flow is the god of flowing water, rivers, travel, and travelers. He is The Family's messenger; just as rivers gather up and carry fertile soil down from the mountains, so Father Flow goes to spread and gather news and information to and from the world. He is full of energy and easily distracted in the stories, prone to meander, get lost, or forget what he was up to.

Father Flood is the god of stationary water, lakes, ponds, floods, and change. He is a figure prone to sudden, drastic changes. Most of the time he is depicted as rather lazy; taking things slow, applying the least amount of effort to his tasks that will suffice to finish them, and spending a lot of time napping. The Family is generally okay with this; a body of water can do a lot of good just by being there. His real duty is extreme interventions: if something has gone tremendously wrong, if the current way of doing things fails, Father Flood is roused from his lethargy and washes the slate clean. In this aspect he is loud, angry, and acts without restraint. (His shamans are frequently called to keep him happy and lazy during rituals.)
### Papaw Prairie
Mother Mountain's younger brother. He sees to the plant-life of Dalrok, which mostly means grasses and wildflowers. He is just as benevolent as Mother Mountain, but in a more human and approachable way. Mother Mountain sees to the big picture health of her followers, while Papaw Prairie does more work comforting and helping followers at an individual level. His stories often involve meeting with someone in crisis in their dreams and trying to help them through, frequently over a drink or a smoke.

### Mother Midnight
Representing mystery, fear, beauty, madness, and danger, Mother Midnight is a hard character to pin down. In some stories she is Mother Mountain's sister, and in others they are lovers. (These are not necessarily exclusive; the gods are not bound by the same taboos we are.) She is frequently described as hauntingly beautiful and captivating, but also *extremely* dangerous. Like the eyes of a wolfpack surrounding your campfire. In her stories, she's usually testing some remarkable mortal. Those who impress her are rewarded with power, those who fail die. These tests often have multiple layers, and her thought process is strange.
### Grandfather Glacier
The closest thing to a villainous figure in The Family, Grandfather Glacier represents cold, loss, and grief. He is not evil, but his presence sucks the warmth and hope out of his surroundings. Most of the time he is portrayed as a pitiable character. Other times his purpose is to punish wicked creatures. His shamans are usually called on to try to keep him away. In extreme, violent cases, they may be called on to handle criminals.
### Sister Sun, Sister Storm, and Sister Sky
The triplets are Mother Mountain's first daughters.

Sister Sun represents hard work, reliability, light, warmth, and laborers. Every day, she gets up in the morning to do her job; giving the world light and warmth. She is portrayed as completely tireless, perfectly diligent, and utterly reliable. She can come off as joyless and stern in some of her stories, but her shamans will tell you that this is because she knows first hand how much it takes for the world to keep turning and doesn't have time for those who can't or won't keep up. Her one point of mercy is that she frequently reinforces the importance of rest; after all, even she stops her work at night.

Sister Storm represents lightning, wind, and extreme emotion--especially rage and sadness. Her stories describe her funnel-cloud hair and lightning-filled eyes. Her job is to supply the world with water, but she is more temperamental than her older sister, sometimes vanishing for months while other times dumping weeks of water in a single night, sometimes adding a tornado or lightning storm to the direly needed water. 

The last out of the first three, Sister Sky represents a much more laidback mindset. She represents beauty, crafters, artists, and dreamers. Her main duty is to keep the sky clean so her elder sisters can do their work. This is not an even division of labor; Sister Sky has a lot of spare time compared to the other two. She fills this time making all sorts of beautiful things for folk on the earth to see. She spends most of her time on clouds, but all beautiful things are said to carry a bit of Sister Sky's spark. Once in a while, she can even get Sister Sun and Sister Storm to cooperate long enough to produce rainbows.

Sister Sky is also uncommonly close with Mother Midnight. The two work together to arrange the starts and moon at night.
### Brother Backwood and Brother Bayou
These two deities are not widely worshipped in Dalrok. There are not many trees to make a backwood and there are no marshes in the country. These two are generally added to The Family by worshippers in other parts of the world. As the youngest members of The Family, their lore is much more vague and variable than the more established Family members. Their personalities change drastically depending on the character of the local woods or swamps.

History/Lore unlocks --

[Number] - The original Dal names for these deities are not always alliterative. An early translator apparently appreciated artfully applied alliteration. These names caught on so much that today even native Dal speakers will use the altered names when speaking Eldar.
[Higher number] - This mysterious early translator stayed within the same ballpark as the original meanings. Father Flow was originally Father River. Mother Midnight's Dal name means Mother Twilight. Papaw Prairie is changed not with "Papaw"--the Dal word used is an informal way to address an older male relative--but with Prairie; the original word is closer to grass or grassland. Most Dals are easy going about these changes; they're just different names in different languages for the same beings. (And Dals who object tend to not speak much Eldar anyway.)