# Musky Lonn

From a distance, not knowing a whole lot about him, a reasonable person might think of Lonn as an example how intelligent people can get ahead in a capitalist world. After all, if you listen to the stories he tells, he sounds like a self-made man, and he's behind the latest and most promising attempts to get to space, as well as a car of the future. He even sent a submarine to help save those kids that one time. He'll tell you the reason he has so much is because he has made so much, that he earned it, and all is as it should be. But when you put this story under a magnifying glass, try to get closer to the man, you'll start to detect a certain smell. Let's expose his story to some scrutiny and see what happens.

First, let's look a little closer at that space program. Seems rather clear at this point that Musky Lonn would have done better setting up a fireworks stand instead of a space program. They rise and they explode and all the little pieces fall back down, all that hope and money and time and effort just to rain debris down on the planet he's trying desperately to leave. The smell left behind is charcoal, twisted metal, and a unique stink that comes from the man at the top.

Then that car. So fancy! So decadent! So smart! It even drives itself! What incredible design. "Is it safe? Is it ready?" The smelly truth is that a capitalist doesn't ask those questions. The questions Musky Lonn asked were, "Can we make money from it?" and "Can we protect ourselves from liability?" You might think, driving down the road with your car's camera pointed at your face, that it is there to help you. But Lonn's always watching through that camera, and if his car crashes, you best believe he will use that camera to prove it's your fault.

It's like this with everything else Lonn has done. Looks good from a distance, but up close the whole thing stinks. The final, greatest lie Musky Lonn told is that he is self made. The truth of this only comes when you get close enough for Lonn to pay you himself. He will reach into his pocket and hand you emeralds from the mine his father owned. You will have to wash the blood off your gems yourself.