# Sister Sun, Sister Sky, Sister Storm

Now you might have noticed that we called them *Mother* Mountain and *Father* Time. If you're talking about parents, most of the time that implies that there are some children around somewhere. The first time that union bore fruit it was a miraculous three for the price of one. First up was Sister Sun. Right behind her, Sister Sky. After that, Sister Storm. The three sisters above us couldn't be more different.

By a minute or so, the oldest of the first children was Sister Sun, with golden skin and hair like fire. Her job is to provide light and warmth, and she gets up every morning to do it. Every day, even if there are thick clouds covering her up, she's up there just doin' her best. An embodiment of hard, honest work, just getting what needs to be done, done right. She's not out there for the fame or glory, and is so uninterested in the limelight that she blinds those who try too hard to look at her. If you want her favor, don't bother with worship or gifts--instead, go out and do something that needs to be done. And when the sun starts setting, you can sit and watch as she lets down her red hair, maybe offer a small thanks.

Right behind her was Sister Sky, blue and beautiful. And a little lazy, but in fairness she don't need to do much more than sit around and look good for us. She spends her time spinning new wispy dresses and cloudy hairstyles for herself and showing them off. These she sends off on their lazy way. She represents leisure, simple beauty, and to an certain point vanity. Just a little. She's real easy to please--for the sky's favor, just lay back and watch. Try to see shapes in the clouds she sends your way. Maybe take a minute and make something look nice for a bit.

The final fruit of that first birth was Sister Storm, with hair curling like funnel clouds, lightning in her eyes, and thunder in her voice. While Sister Sun is calm and hard-working and Sister Sky is mellow and easy going, Sister Storm is temperamental and angry. Her job is to bring the rain to nurture the plants and people of Hollerville, but she lacks Sister Sun's discipline to get it done evenly and every day. And when she gets really riled up, she gets dangerous. But those lucky enough to do so from a place where her anger won't hurt them will all agree; her beauty is blinding. Sometimes literally if you're looking too close. There's really no getting on her good side though; don't bother with prayers or the like, just get out of her way.