# The Misty Gator of Hollarville and Her Thousand Children
## By Phoenix and Proven Paradox

Afixed where four mountains meet out west of Hollarville is a lake covered in mist all the year long, blessed by Brother Bayou. And in that lake lives a lovely lady gator the color of evergreen trees with pink tips on her dainty scales.

If you travel to the lake and drop a gift into the water, she will rise from the waters and tend to you depending on what gift you bring her. For a gift of copper--as little as a dirty penny you found in your couch cushion--she'll bring you some warm bread from her underwater ovens. Cornbread, wheat bread, white bread, biscuits, whatever your tastes desire. No one who lives in reach of her goes hungry. For a nickle gift, she'll bring you some butter, jam, or honey along with her bread. None around her pond go without at least a few simple joys. For the silver gift of a quarter, she'll take you into her underwater home for a night and let you rest your weary head in a warm, safe room. In the morning a hot shower and some breakfast will await. None need go without a place to sleep under her watch. And finally, for a gift of gold--a coin, a bit of jewelry, some asshole's fake tooth--she'll speak magical poems that heal the cuts and burns from wounded skin and souls alike. 

Do not think she takes these prices for greed, as every cent thrown into her her pond flows into the hands of those doing good work as reliably as the rivers flowing from her lake. She has many thousands of children who take human form to go out across the land and learn what there is to know, and do what needs to be done. And like a good meemaw, the gator collects the gold tossed into the lake into a basket woven from the reeds. When she has enough so that each of her children can have a piece, she sprouts wings and takes off into the night. Flying to a thousand houses where her children and her children's children live in human form and deposits the gold on their door step.  And all her youngins come out when they hear her call and pass onto the gossip and the tales of wonder and woe. She listens to all they have learned so that she can work them into her poems, to heal and to teach weary travelers about the virtue of giving.  And when she has collected her tales, she flies back through the mountains to her misty lake, settles to the bottom and composes her poems in her dreams.

--Inspired by Misty Skaggs of ekymutualaid.